Operations Version 1.2 2015-06-14


What is it?
-----------

Operations is a pack of programs coded in Java
that use Apache Hadoop to execute a specific
operation.


Apache Hadoop and Java Version notes
------------------------------------

The Quantum Walk Simulator supports JDK 1.6 or
higher and Apache Hadoop version 1.2 or higher.
Note that we have currently tested this
implementation with JDK 1.7 and Apache Hadoop
1.2.1.


Input format
------------

The input files must have a header and other
lines with the data. The format is:

-Header:
#TYPE,M,N
    where:
        -TYPE: A or B. A is the left matrix. B is
               the right matrix.
        -M and N: The dimensions of the matrices.
                  A vector must have a column
                  matrix format: #TYPE,M,1

-Other lines:
TYPE,M,N,REALjIMAGINARY
    where:
        -TYPE: A or B. A is the left matrix. B is
               the right matrix.
        -M and N: The row and column value. A
                  vector must have a column
                  matrix format: TYPE,M,0
        -REAL and IMAGINARY: The real and the
                             imaginary value for
                             each element of the
                             matrix. The
                             character "j" is the
                             separator used in
                             the code.


Parameters
----------

To run the operations, you will need same
parameters:

-HDFS_INPUT_FOLDER: The directory in the HDFS
	where the input files are.

-HDFS_OUTPUT_FOLDER: A path to a absent
	ditectory in the HDFS. The program will store
	the result here. 

-TYPE_OF_MATRIX: If is the left matrix (A) or the
	right matrix (B).
	
-NEW_SHAPE: The new shape separated by the
    character comma.

-LOCAL_INPUT_FILE: A local path where the
    input file is.

-LOCAL_OUTPUT_FOLDER: A local directory where the
    output will be stored.

-AXES: The axes over which the sum will be
    performed. Separate the values using the
    character comma: x1,x2,...,xn

-POSITION: A specific position given by chosen
    indexes in the input array. This must be in
    the same dimension of the array in the input
    file. This parameter is optional. Use the
    character "?" to represent a not static value
    and the character comma to separate them:
    ?,?,?,?,x1,x2

Run
---

Open the Terminal and go to the location where
the operations.jar file is stored. Now, execute
the follow command:

Matrix Multiplication
hadoop jar operations.jar operations.MultMatrix \
HDFS_INPUT_FOLDER HDFS_OUTPUT_FOLDER \
TYPE_OF_MATRIX

Kronecker Product
hadoop jar operations.jar operations.KronMatrix \
HDFS_INPUT_FOLDER HDFS_OUTPUT_FOLDER \
TYPE_OF_MATRIX

Norm
hadoop jar operations.jar operations.NormMatrix \
HDFS_INPUT_FOLDER HDFS_OUTPUT_FOLDER

Square of the absolute value
hadoop jar operations.jar operations.absSquare \
HDFS_INPUT_FOLDER HDFS_OUTPUT_FOLDER

Reshape
hadoop jar operations.jar operations.Reshape \
NEW_SHAPE HDFS_INPUT_FOLDER HDFS_OUTPUT_FOLDER

Sum over the axis
hadoop jar operations.jar operations.SumAxis \
AXES POSITION HDFS_INPUT_FOLDER \
HDFS_OUTPUT_FOLDER


Compile
-------

If you need compile the source code you will need
the source files in the folder src. To compile the
code you need to set the environment variable
CLASSPATH for your user with:

HADOOP_FOLDER_PATH/*:HADOOP_FOLDER_PATH/lib/*


Open the Terminal and go to the location where
the folder src is stored. Now, execute the follow
commands:

mkdir bin
javac -d bin/ src/MultMatrix.java \
src/KronMatrix.java src/NormMatrix.java \
src/AbsSquare.java src/Reshape.java \
src/SumAxis.java
jar -cvf operations.jar -C bin/ .
